[grunts, gasps]
[MERYL gasps]
Huh?
Undertaker? Where'd Vash go?
[WOLFWOOD]
Don't know, don't care.
[MERYL]
Huh?
[MERYL grunts]
Stop playing around!
Where is he? I know you know!
What do you wanna hear?
That his parts are in
Knives's chop shop?
[MERYL, WOLFWOOD grunt]
What's your deal?
I thought more of you.
[WOLFWOOD] Oh, yeah? Tsk.
That was your mistake.
[grunts]
[VASH grunting]
Calm yourself down, brother.
[gasps]
[VASH grunting]
Good. Now let us begin.
[grunts]
[CONRAD]
Initial connection complete.
Vitals are stable.
The first phase was a success.
A hundred years
of research.
My life's work finally
bears its fruit.
[MERYL] Turn it off.
I'm done playing.
[CONRAD]
You wouldn't shoot me.
[MERYL gasps]
[CONRAD]
The glass is bulletproof.
Besides, severing the connection
will kill your friend,
not save him.
[gasps]
What's it all for?
[CONRAD]
Plants are husks.
Their true being resides
somewhere else.
And not anywhere on
this godforsaken planet,
but in a different
dimension entirely.
A higher plane.
That plane is where the energy
we consume originates.
The plants you see make that
transference possible.
It might be helpful to think of
plants as windows that connect
the two dimensions.
Just tell me what it's for!
[CONRAD] Why is it the
twins are the only ones
with their own free will?
[gasps]
[CONRAD] I hypothesize that the
key difference between plants
and Independents is the
presence of a soul.
To grant the plants souls
and give them free will,
we must connect to the core.
Core?
[CONRAD] The manifestation
of beginning and end.
The source of all matter
and energy in this universe.
Gain access to the core,
give souls to the plants.
That is my objective.
[MERYL] You're saying all
of the plants out there...
You wanna make
them Independents?
[gasps]
[VASH]
This place.
[KNIVES] Fitting this is
the first memory I come to.
[VASH grunts]
Yeah, and why's that?
[KNIVES] Remember the
vow I made that day?
Huh?
They'll be free. Paradise is
well within my reach, brother.
My world of plants isn't
complete without you.
Join me, and we shall
save our kind.
They don't abuse plants
because they want to.
It's because they're trapped
on this barren planet.
It's our fault!
[KNIVES]
I see.
Then don your crown of thorns,
and prepare to die in your
precious Sinners' stead.
[gasps]
[MERYL] If all the plants
become Independent,
humanity won't survive!
[CONRAD] We've been in
a spiral of suicide
long before we arrived here.
Plant independence is the
only way to reverse that.
Vash's "window" is special.
He's the only one
that can take from
as well as send to
the higher plane.
[MERYL]
It doesn't matter!
He would never
agree to help you!
[CONRAD]
Hence, he will be remade.
Kill him, you mean?
[beeping]
[CONRAD]
Second connection successful.
Using Vash as a window,
all plants are ours to control.
We're past the point of return.
[gasps]
[MERYL] C'mon, Vash!
Snap out of it!
Wake up!
[CONRAD] Initializing
assimilation, absorption,
awakening, and memory
manipulation.
Is all of that necessary?
[CONRAD]
Knives?
[KNIVES]
It's going well.
[gasps]
[KNIVES] I'm going to
push even deeper now.
You will not recognize anything.
Not yourself, nor the
world around you.
And not me.
[WOLFWOOD]
Owe you one.
Time to pick a side, huh?
[gasps]
[ROSA]
Get the hell outta my town!
You promised you would save me.
[VASH]
Tonis, I...
[ROLLO]
You promised you would save me.
[VASH gasps]
Rollo?
[WOLFWOOD] You think we're
better off as monsters
than we are dead, huh?
[gasps]
[WOLFWOOD] That's damn
selfish of you, Blondie.
Couldn't save him then,
so do it now.
[KNIVES, WOLFWOOD]
Put him out of his misery.
[MONEV groans]
I-I need you. Kill me, Vash.
No way. Rollo!
[coughs]
[VASH gasps]
That's enough!
[gasps]
[KNIVES] You're no hero who's
strong enough to save them.
You're a coward too
weak to see them die.
I can see straight through you.
Where'd you bring me, Nai?
[VASH gasps]
My hand.
None of it's real, is it?
Just some messed up dream.
It's a lie!
Can't stop. Not yet.
[VASH]
There's gotta be a way out.
[CONRAD]
Synchronization is at 40%.
You won't escape me. Not again.
[VASH panting]
Is this...?
[KNIVES]
Indeed. The Big Fall.
You did all of this,
you know.
What happens when they find out?
[gasps]
[grunts]
[KNIVES]
Don't lose sleep over it.
They're not like us.
Their lives are so short.
Last barely a century or so.
Set them free.
Relax. They don't matter.
[grunting]
Wait, who were they?
[CONRAD] Synchronization
nearly complete. 70%.
Eighty percent, and rising fast!
[MERYL gasps]
Huh...?
What's happening?
[MERYL gasps] They're growing.
They're like the flora!
What's going on, Knives?
Is this you?
Have faith, Doctor.
[VASH grunting]
It's time to release your power!
Our brand new
world begins today!
[grunts]
[gasps]
It's her.
[CONRAD]
Synchronization at 90%.
Progress has stalled?
Impossible!
[gasps]
[KNIVES]
And yet again, she gets to you!
Rem Saverem!
[CONRAD] The love for humanity
versus the love for a brother.
[CONRAD coughs]
[CONRAD] That will determine
the very fate of the world.
[SHOPKEEPER A]
Big appetite, huh?
Callin' it a day?
[CHUCK LEE]
Not yet.
Fair enough.
[CHUCK LEE] Get real.
Think they'd let me clock out
with the Humanoid
Typhoon in town?
Huh? In JuLai?
[CHUCK LEE] That's why
we're working all night.
[WOMAN A]
Look there, I see something!
--[CHUCK LEE, SOLDIERS] Hm?
--[CITIZENS shouting]
[MERYL gasping]
Wake up, Vash!
Don't let it consume you!
You have to wake up!
"Flower?"
Yeah. Though I like
geraniums best.
Earth had thousands of types.
All lovely, too.
Can you eat them?
[REM chuckles]
Not this kind, I'm afraid.
So these are just for show.
To look pretty.
They're like the one in
the plant room, huh?
Good, Nai. Observant as ever.
[KNIVES]
Hm.
[VASH]
It'd be cooler if it was yummy.
All that you ever think
about is eating.
Well, I'm sorry if that's
all I'm good for.
You know I didn't say that.
--Didn't have to!
--Fool!
Hush, where will
fighting get you? Nai.
Just because you were born with
powers doesn't mean that you--
Yeah, yeah. Doesn't mean
I should brag, right?
Don't get me wrong.
Your powers are
a beautiful thing.
But promise me, once everybody
else wakes up from cold sleep--
I won't show them
to anyone but you.
And even if you don't need to...
[REM, KNIVES] ...pretend to eat
and drink when others can see.
Trust me, I know.
Huh?
It's him you should
be worried about.
At this rate, he'll turn
out as human as you.
[REM] That'd be okay.
Comparison is the thief of joy.
You are exactly how
you were meant to be.
[VASH]
Hm?
[REM] Come here, Nai.
Bring it in.
[KNIVES]
Uh!
Powers don't change
a thing to me.
Because at the end of the day,
you're still my perfect boys.
[VASH chuckles]
I love both of you.
[VASH] Did she mean nothing
to you all this time?
[KNIVES] I can't say
that it stuck out.
We shouldn't be here.
She's hiding something.
You have to be curious, too.
[VASH grunts]
[KNIVES grunts]
--[KNIVES gasps]
--[VASH giggles]
[KNIVES]
Mm. That's me.
[VASH]
I'm there, too.
What's Project Code "Type T?"
Says another Independent was
born here about 50 years ago.
That's news to me.
They keep the ship's
whole history in here?
[VASH gasps]
[KNIVES, VASH gasp]
[KNIVES, VASH yell]
Nai! Vash!
[VASH] I know that humans
did terrible things to her.
I can see why you'd hate them.
But even so...
[KNIVES] Defend their
cruelty all you want.
That is but a grain of sand
in their desert of misdeeds.
[VASH]
Huh?
[KNIVES] Humans say that
they despise conflict,
yet no era has been
free from war.
They just repeat the
same tragedies.
History is proof.
[VASH]
You love that one, huh?
Humanity can't learn.
[VASH sighs]
[VASH]
They have learned, Nai.
It's like Rem told me.
The day we were born,
she vowed that we wouldn't
end up as another tragedy.
Just try. Try to
have faith in them.
[gasps]
[KNIVES]
Without any powers,
you're too weak to
live as a plant.
Hence, you needed the humans
to love and accept you.
They only loved your tricks,
your charm, and the
tightness of your leash.
Misplaced devotion is a trap.
I had to save you from it.
That's why I crashed the ships.
[VASH gasps]
It was my fault?
Everything that I
did was for you.
[gasps]
[laughs]
And now, the final memory!
[CONRAD]
We're at 99%.
It's not too late, y'know!
You can stop this!
[CONRAD]
It is too late.
A hundred and fifty
years too late.
Wake up!
Gunshots?
[SOLDIER C] An unknown
organism has appeared
in the central tower!
We need backup!
Well, that doesn't look good.
[CONRAD gasps]
Just a moment longer.
[KNIVES] The one source of all
your confusion... was her.
She sold you on excuses and
disguised them as love.
She's who built your
pathetic fantasy.
[VASH whimpers]
No, don't leave me. Stay here!
Rem, please! I need you!
You need your brother.
[gasps]
[CONRAD]
Synchronization at 100%.
Memory manipulation and
assimilation complete.
[KNIVES laughs]
You've finally come back to me!
Happy birthday, Vash.
[grunts]
Third connection successful.
It's here. The entrance
to the higher plane!
[gunshots]
[CITIZENS, SOLDIERS shouting]
[SOLDIER F] This is JuLai
to the Alliance of Cities!
Requesting assistance!
Immediately!
[KNIVES] Flaming arrows promise
to ignite the brimstone.
The flood promises to purify.
The battle of Har
Megiddo is upon us.
[gasps]
[KNIVES]
The higher plane awaits me.
There, the core shall
be within my grasp.
May caution guide you.
[gasps]
You're bleeding.
[CONRAD inhales]
It's been an arduous journey.
Until Knives' wish is realized,
I am not permitted even to die.
But soon it'll all be over.
[gasps]
Let mankind's empire
turn to salt.
Their despotic reign ends now.
[gasps, laughs]
[KNIVES]
The arms of an Independent...
...shall carry this broken
world... into a new order!